Cheat Sheet
B&K Precision LCR Meter 891

David Vandian
2/16/2026

    This is a very quick guide on how to use the LCR meter to make measurements.
Well, you should probably read the manual, but it’s not that easy to follow, and
I’ve already done it for you, so here is my gift from me to you. For additional
points of confusion, ask me or refer to the manual, which is under the machine.

Before you start
    Make sure that the machine is plugged in before turning it on. This may seem
like a silly thing to say, but we are in the habit of unplugging the machine
after finishing using it (a habit you, reader, would do well to follow!), so I
felt it necessary to make mention of this.

Calibration
    Once you turn on the machine, it should be calibrated. Press the SYSTEM key,
located right below the screen to the right, and then press CAL, which is again
at the bottom. There are two calibrations that must be performed.
    First, we will do an open calibration. Leave the probes unconnected to any-
thing and hit OPEN CAL, located on the right side of the screen and wait for it
to finish. It should take about a minute.
    Next is the short calibration. Connect the prongs together (i.e., short the
connection—now you know the name’s origin) and smash the SHORT CAL button, and
again wait for it to finish, about 30 seconds.
    With that, you are done calibrating.
NOTA BENE that the wires bear stray impedances, so, especially for tasks dealing
with very small capacitances, one should perform the calibration in such a way
that the wires remain, as much as possible, in the same posture as during when
you’re measuring for best accuracy.

Measurement
    The most-used mode will generally be the SWEEP mode, which is accessed by
pressing the corresponding button on the bottom. It is right next to the SYSTEM
key. The first press will begin the linear sweep mode (and LIN will correspond-
ingly be highlighted), and pressing again will enable logarithmic sweep mode (a-
gain, with LOG thereby being highlighted).
    Before measuring, you’ll need to know how to set the parameters. Accessing
them is done simply by pressing any one of the arrow keys.

    FUNC parameter
    First the FUNC parameter is what will be highlighted. You can change what’s
being measured by hitting the MEAS FUNC button at the bottom left; the letters
are standard abbreviations used in physics, with
        C = capacitance,
        L = inductance,
        Z = magnitude of impedance, and
        R = resistance.
You can then control how the machine makes the measurement by selecting one of
the two options on the right side: the first option indicates measurement in
series mode, and the second in parallel mode; for Z and R, this effects a corre-
sponding change to Y (admittance; 1/X) and G (conductivity; 1/R), respectively,
both measured in siemens.
    Each parameter has a secondary parameter as well:
        C and L:   choice between Q(uality), D(ispersion),
                   and R (plus also G in parallel mode),
                   toggled by repeated pressings of the button;
        Z (and Y): θ, the phase angle; and
        R (or G):  X (or B), the reactance (or susceptance), which is the
                             imaginary part of impedance (or admittance).
NOTA BENE that in SWEEP mode, the machine only measures one of the parameters at
a time, so when measuring X or R (Y or G), you will need to make a second sweep
to have complete data; make sure to save your data before doing so, though!

    Other parameters
    The other parameters may also be edited by navigating to them with the arrow
pad and modifying them with the buttons on the side.
    The LEVEL parameter controls the RMS voltage to be delivered to the object
under measurement; the options are 0.5 V and 1 V.
    The STEP frequency controls how many datapoints the machine takes. The for-
mula from the STEP parameter s to the number of datapoints n is
	n = (300 / s) + 1,
the addition term coming from the fact that the machine counts inclusively.
    When s > 1, the machine gains the useless ability to linearly interpolate
between datapoints. Make sure it’s off by hitting DISP on the bottom to enter
table mode (TBL will be highlighted) and ensuring INTERP, on the side, is OFF.
    To edit the start and stop frequencies of SWEEP, first ensure that AUTO FREQ
is OFF by checking the option on the side of the screen; once this is the case,
the ability to navigate to START and STOP (frequency) with the arrow keys will
be granted. The values may be changed either by typing in your number with the
number pad and choosing Hz or kHz, or by using the softkeys on the side of the
screen to move between digits and hitting INC(rement) or DEC(rement).
    The HI and LO options control the scale of the graph displayed after measur-
ing. I would advise leaving this alone, but for those who want to edit it, this
may be done by following a similar process to how to edit the frequency range.

    Measuring flow
    Once your options are set, you may hit START to begin your measurement. Per
my rough calculations, it takes the machine roughly ⅔ second to get one datum,
so you won’t need to wait long. Review your data on the graph and in the table
and then save your result by following the procedure in the next section.
    When measuring complex impedance, whether in Z mode or R mode, it is impera-
tive that you make a second measurement immediately! Once you save your result,
switch to the other parameter (being θ or X (or B)) by hitting SWAP, and make
a new measurement, which you also need to save, of course.

Saving
    Once you make your measurement, save it by hitting the SAV button by the
keypad and then hitting SAVE MEAS. You should have a FAT32-formatted USB flash
drive plugged in: the machine automatically detects it and saves it there. You
may save your measurement parameters by hitting SAV CONFIG, and save a screen-
shot of the current display by hitting SAVE SCREEN.

Finishing up
    Once you’re done, power off the machine simply by hitting the power button,
and then unplug the machine. Then, process the data you’ve gotten into a .csv by
firing up the data-parsing .exe I created and feeding the outputted .txt files
there, since the machine outputs the data into a very inconvenient format. Now
you’re free to process all your sweet data. Enjoy!